Hello, everyone. Welcome back to EnglishPod. My name is Marco and I'm Erica and today
we're bringing you the second part of Christmas Chronicles. Another Christmas lesson to
get you in the Christmas spirit. Christmas and useful language for all of our listeners today.
That's right. In today's lesson we'll be learning some great Christmas vocabulary and police
related vocabulary as well. Now Christmas, police vocabulary how exactly does that fit together?
Well they don't. But here at EnglishPod we can make anything happen so that's why we have done
this to be creative, to be creative. So let's take a look at our vocabulary preview for this lesson.
The vocabulary preview. In today's vocabulary preview we've got two words from our dialogue
that you will need to know to understand this dialogue. The first one is elves, elves, elves, elves,
and this is the plural of the word elf, right? So elves are little people, little people with
pointy hats, but pointy hats sense as helpers. Okay so elves, elves, our next word is candy cane,
candy cane, candy cane, candy cane. So a candy cane is a traditional Christmas candy, right?
Yes it's red and white and kind of shaped like a like a jay, like a jay yeah. Okay so like very
traditional. Yeah you hang them on the tree and you eat them at Christmas time, he's like peppermint.
Okay well I guess we're ready to listen to our dialogue for the first time and it's going to be
kind of fast, but don't worry if you don't understand everything because we'll come back and talk
about some of the language later.
Really far as you can't take me to jail, don't you know who I am? Chris Kringle you know,
pop in the well, pair in the well, pop in the toilet, shung down all time. Yeah yeah we've heard
that one before, haven't we Joe? Yeah last week we booked this guy who claimed to be a tooth fairy.
Can you believe that? That's Christmas Eve and I have all these presents to deliver. Where's your
Christmas spirit? What will happen when all the children wake up tomorrow and don't find any gifts on
their stockings? Sorry buddy you're part in a no-pocking zone, you were speeding and you have no
size that. Even if we let you go now your slaves been impounded and those reindeer were taken to the
city zoo. What? This is unbelievable. What's this world coming through? Christmas is ruined.
What's that up ahead? It looks like hells. Whoa there are shooting candycains.
Mayday, mayday, we're under heavy attack. We need backup.
Okay so Santa has escaped from the police car. Thank God it's like a war over there. They were
really firing everything. I know I mean those elves are aggressive. Very aggressive.
Okay well we can take a look at some great vocabulary from this dialogue. Why don't we start with our
language takeaway for today? Language takeaway. In today's language takeaway we have five really
important words that we hope you will take away from the lesson. Exactly and the first word that we
have today is booked booked booked booked booked is another way of saying a rested. A rested.
Yeah it's a slang word hey. It's kind of slang yeah yeah it's a slang word booked.
Okay next word speeding speeding speeding. So Santa was speeding because he was
going too fast driving too fast yeah going over the speed limit. Exactly.
Third word today is impounded. Impounded. Impounded. That's when your car gets arrested.
Your car gets arrested. Yeah they take your car to car jail. Okay so my car is in car jail.
I think I understand. It's impounded. Okay so the police take my car and I have to
pay to get it out. Okay let's move to our next word ruined ruined ruined ruined ruined.
We have a few examples for us to listen to to understand the meaning of this word.
Example one. It's been raining for five days.
Ofication is ruined. Example two. Look at this hole you've ruined my favorite pair of jeans.
Example three. Sam you've been caught stealing from the company. Your chances for a
permission are ruined. Okay great examples and basically ruined of means destroy destroyed.
Yeah messed up messed up. Okay now for our last word back up. Back up.
So now for our last word. Okay so now for our last word and language takeaway. Back up. Back up.
Back up. Back up. So backup is help help. Yeah right. So when you call for backup you call for help.
Yeah you see it all the time in war movies police call for backup. Yeah right. I think though
it's important to point out that here the pronunciation and stress of this phrase is really
important hey. Yes yes. You have to say backup. Back up. Back up. Yeah. So both words are
stressed at about the same level hey. Back up. Because if you were to stay back up that means to
move back exactly. Yeah it's different. So backup. Back up. Yes. The stress is important.
The stress. All right well you know what I think with those words in mind it's time for us
to listen to the dialogue a second time.
Really fellas you can't take me to jail. Don't you know who I am? Chris Kringle you know
popping a well. Pernawell. Bob on the Tully. Shondan on Ren. Yeah yeah we've heard that one before.
Haven't we Joe? Yeah last week we booked this guy who claimed to be the tooth fairy.
Can you believe that? It's Christmas Eve and I have all these presents to deliver. Where's your
Christmas spirit? What will happen when all the children wake up tomorrow and don't find any gifts
in their stockings? Sorry buddy you were parked in a no-pocking zone you were speeding and you
have no idea. Besides that even if we let you go now your sleigh has been impounded and those
reindeer were taken to the city zoo. What? This is unbelievable. What's the world coming though?
Christmas is ruined. What's that up ahead? He looks like elves. Whoa there's shooting candy
keys. Made a. Made a. We are under heavy attack. We need backup.
Okay so without the sound effects and without any noise I think it's much more clear now right?
A little less dramatic. A less dramatic but good language. Yes speaking of good language there's
some great phrases I want to look at in this dialogue and so let's do that in putting it together.
Putting it together. We have two phrases in putting it together that we want to show you how
you can use in many different situations. In the dialogue we heard this. Last week we booked
this guy who claimed to be a tooth fairy. Last week we booked this guy who claimed to be a tooth fairy.
So when you claim to be something you're saying that you are something but it might not be true right?
Right so for example you can say this woman claimed to be your wife but she's not but she's not.
Okay we have a few other examples of how you can use the phrase claim to.
Example one.
Daniel claimed to be the son of a government minister but later we found out that he was lying.
Example two.
The criminals claim to have a gun.
Example three.
This man here is claiming to know your father.
That's such a great phrase just by putting it together with another verb means something different but
still expresses that same idea. Right claim to have she claimed to have a baby or something.
Yeah okay okay so let's move to our next phrase.
Under heavy. Under heavy. Under heavy.
So when the dialogue they said we're under heavy attack. Right you can also use this phrase in a couple
of other ways. Example one.
We're in the heavy attack.
Example two.
We're under heavy fire.
Example three.
The prime minister is in the heavy security.
So if you're under heavy fire means that there's a lot of fire.
Like gun fire. Gun fire. Yeah not like fire fire.
Yeah okay and if you're under heavy security it means that you have a lot of security.
A lot of body guards or a lot of right like a prime minister a president will be under heavy
security exactly okay. A couple of great phrases.
Really good phrases and with this we can listen to our dialogue a third time.
Really it's hard. You can't take me to jail. Don't you know who I am? Chris Crangle you know
Papa no well per no well. Papa no toilet. Shut up all time.
Yeah yeah we've heard that one before. Haven't we Joe?
Yeah last week we booked this guy who claimed to be a tooth fairy.
Can you believe that?
That's Chris machine even I have all these presents to deliver.
Where's your Christmas spirit? What will happen when all the children wake up tomorrow
and don't find any gifts on their stockings?
Sorry buddy you're part in a no-pocking zone. You were speeding and you have no ID.
Besides that even if we let you go now your slaves been impounded and those reindeer were taken to the
city zoo. What? This is unbelievable. What's this world coming through?
Christmas is ruined. What's that up ahead? It looks like
Ells. Whoa there are shooting candycains.
Mayday mayday we're under heavy attack. We need backup.
So Marko the police mentioned something about the tooth fairy. The tooth fairy.
I don't know maybe some of our listeners don't know the story about the tooth fairy so
can I go ahead and say it? Yes go ahead. Okay well when you're small and you lose the tooth
your baby teeth. Yeah you put it underneath your pillow and then you go to sleep and then in the
night the tooth fairy comes into the house flies into the house sneaks under your pillow
takes the tooth and puts money there. I see. So this is a story that parents tell their kids about
what happens to their baby teeth and they get money exchange for it. Right so I guess it takes away
the sadness of losing that tooth. Yeah yeah. But in South America for example we have
the tooth mouse. The tooth mouse. Yes. Okay mouse. What is it? How does it call it in Spanish?
Well in some places it's called raton cito peris. Uh huh. Like it has a last name
peris. Oh really? Uh in other places it's just called raton cito raton which means mouse.
Okay so it'd be like tooth fairy Smith. To be a tooth fairy Smith. And it's the same thing. It's
a little mouse that comes in and steals a little tooth from you and leaves money in exchange.
Cool. Very cool. Yeah. So we go from Santa Claus to Guns and Wars to the tooth fairy.
Only yet English pod. Exactly. All right guys I hope you enjoyed today's lesson.
If you have any questions or comments about the lesson please visit our website Englishpod.com.
All right well we're out of time. We got to go. We've got some Christmas shopping to do.
Yes. Christmas shopping so we'll see you guys later and until then it's goodbye.